---
layout: with-sidebar
sidebar: documentation
title: Row Identifiers
audience: docs
---

## What is a row identifier?

Socrata datasets are essentially a collection of rows. Each row can be uniquely designated by it's "row identifier", much like a drivers license number or social security number identifies an individual. For those familiar with database concepts, they essentially act the same way as [primary keys](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_key).

## Internal Identifiers vs Publisher-Specified Identifiers

Row identifiers come in two flavors:

- Internal identifiers are auto-generated by the Socrata platform every time a new row is created.
- Publisher-specified identifiers are configured by the dataset owner and use a field of unique values within the dataset as the row identifier.

<p class="alert alert-info">Depending on what dataset you're accessing, internal row identifiers may be simple integers, or alphanumeric strings. There's no difference between the two in how you use them.</p>

{% comment %}
## Retrieving Internal Identifiers

By default, internal metadata is not returned with requests. You can override this option by passing a `$select` parameter that includes `:*` along with your request. For example, if you wanted to get all of the fields, you could use `$select=:*,*`.

{% comment %} {% include tryit.html domain='open.whitehouse.gov' path='/resource/p86s-ychb.json' args='$select=:&#42;,&#42;' %} {% endcomment %}

Notable system fields:

- `:id` - The internal identifier for each row
- `:created_at` - An integer representing the [Unix epoch date](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time) at which this row was created
- `:updated_at` - An integer representing the [Unix epoch date](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time) at which this row was last updated 
{% endcomment %}

## Retrieving Rows By Their Identifiers

To use a row identifier to look up a row, simply append it to the resource endpoint for that dataset. For example, to look up row `1` from the [White House Visitor Records](https://open.whitehouse.gov/dataset/White-House-Visitor-Records-Requests/p86s-ychb) dataset using its row identifier:

{% include tryit.html domain='open.whitehouse.gov' path='/resource/p86s-ychb/1.json' %}

In contrast, the [USGS Earthquakes](https://soda.demo.socrata.com/dataset/USGS-Earthquake-Reports/4tka-6guv) dataset is configured to use a publisher-specified identifier. To look up the earthquake with the ID `00388609`:

{% include tryit.html domain='soda.demo.socrata.com' path='/resource/4tka-6guv/00388609.json' %}

## Establishing a Publisher-Specified Identifier

<p class="alert alert-info">Setting a row identifier requires that you are either the owner of a dataset, or that you've been granted a role of Publisher or Administrator on a Socrata customer site. Basically, if you can't modify the dataset, you can't set a row identifier.</p>

A publisher-specified row identifier can be established for any Socrata dataset. A common column to use as a row identifier is an 'ID' column with some kind of number or code that uniquely identifies that row of data. For example, the '*Inspection ID*' column of [Chicago's Food Inspections dataset](https://data.cityofchicago.org/Health-Human-Services/Food-Inspections/4ijn-s7e5) is a Publisher-specified row identifier.

### How to set a row identifier

1. When viewing a dataset click the "About" button in the upper right which is a dark red button.
2. In the side menu that appears click "Edit metadata" (if you do not see this link ensure you are logged in).
3. Scroll to the subheader called "API Endpoint" and below that you can select the row identifier from the drop down menu that contains all the columns within the dataset.
4. After selecting the appropriate column. Click "Save" at the bottom.

